---
layout: post
title: "Release: v1.2.0"
date: 2020-01-20 12:30:45
categories: [Announcements]
tags: [programming, development, git]
link: https://github.com/essentialenemy/noir
---

Noir is developed using and hosted with GitHub. You can head on over to the [GitHub repository]({{ site.github.repo }}) to download it, report any bugs, and to request features.

You can view the details of the styling applied to various site elements [here](/styles/).

I have been steadily working on Noir the past three weeks and still have quite a bit I want to accomplish. Here is what has changed so far in this latest release:

#### CHANGELOG

<span class="fixed">FIXED</span> component sizing is now consistent throughout the entire theme

<span class="fixed">FIXED</span> smart quotes will now properly display on paginated blog posts

<span class="fixed">FIXED</span> line spacing issues caused by inline footnote references

<span class="fixed">FIXED</span> alignment and white space issues with code blocks

<span class="improved">IMPROVED</span> the overall cohesiveness of the theme's style

<span class="improved">IMPROVED</span> the ability for novice programmers to very quickly change the entire
accent color scheme of the theme for light and dark modes by changing `$light` and `$dark` values in `_variables.scss`

<span class="improved">IMPROVED</span> cleaned up various loose ends to improve Jekyll build time

<span class="improved">IMPROVED</span> external links now open in a new tab/window

<span class="improved">IMPROVED</span> the styling of inline footnote references

<span class="improved">IMPROVED</span> the styling of syntax highlighting

<span class="improved">IMPROVED</span> the presentation of code blocks

<span class="improved">IMPROVED</span> increased the number of default message boxes that are defined and styled them with inspiration from the original rainbow Apple logo:

<p class="green"><span class="closebtn" onclick="this.parentElement.style.display='none';">&times;</span><small><b>Success!</b> This is a sentence inside of a message box.</small></p>
<p class="yellow"><span class="closebtn" onclick="this.parentElement.style.display='none';">&times;</span><small><b>Caution!</b> This is a sentence inside of a message box.</small></p>
<p class="orange"><span class="closebtn" onclick="this.parentElement.style.display='none';">&times;</span><small><b>Warning!</b> This is a sentence inside of a message box.</small></p>
<p class="red"><span class="closebtn" onclick="this.parentElement.style.display='none';">&times;</span><small><b>Danger!</b> This is a sentence inside of a message box.</small></p>
<p class="purple"><span class="closebtn" onclick="this.parentElement.style.display='none';">&times;</span><small><b>Please Note:</b> This is a sentence inside of a message box.</small></p>
<p class="blue"><span class="closebtn" onclick="this.parentElement.style.display='none';">&times;</span><small><b>Information:</b> This is a sentence inside of a message box.</small></p>

<span class="added">ADDED</span> button labels! which I am using right now to present the changes
in this update.

<span class="added">ADDED</span> created a ::before element to headers, styled to mimic many popular Markdown editors and which can be easily customized by you

<span class="added">ADDED</span> linked style posts! Clicking the title of the post takes the visitor to
the source being linked to, adds an arrow at the end of the post title to indicate
that it is an external link and also adds a permalink underneath the post date so
that you are still able to direct visitors to your site first if desired. 

*(This post is an example, it links to the theme's GitHub repo)

To create a link post you simply add an additional line to the post front matter
with the external link source:

{% highlight yaml %}
link: https://noir.essentialenemy.com/
{% endhighlight %}

<span class="added">ADDED</span> code blocks now display the language name (^ see it?)

<span class="added">ADDED</span> per post navigation in the form of 'previous' and 'next' links, found at 
the bottom of post content (you can easily make the links display the title of the previous and next posts if you prefer)

<span class="removed">REMOVED</span> the `span` classes for message boxes: warning, info, success and danger have all been depricated in the move to additional, newer ones

<span class="soon">COMING SOON</span> per-post author bio

<span class="soon">COMING SOON</span> built-in category and tags support

<span class="soon">COMING SOON</span> built-in html/css compression (minification)

<span class="soon">COMING SOON</span> built-in navigation area for pages/categories/tags/links

---

This theme is a constant work in progress. If you have any issues, questions or suggestions please send them [my way](https://github.com/essentialenemy)...and thank you for your interest in Noir!