---
layout: post
title: "Release: v1.3.0"
date: 2020-01-25 1:45:30
categories: [Announcements]
tags: [releases, gem, development, git]
link: https://github.com/essentialenemy/noir/releases
---

Noir is developed using and hosted with GitHub. You can head on over to the [GitHub repository]({{ site.github.repo }}) to download it, report any bugs, and to request features.

If you prefer to install the gem version of the theme you can do so [here](https://rubygems.org/gems/noir-for-jekyll).

Here are all of the changes in this latest release:

#### CHANGELOG

<span class="fixed">FIXED</span> Line spacing issues that arose on pagination if an external link was declared.

<span class="improved">IMPROVED</span> Further refined the look of code blocks by making the background slightly lighter, text slightly larger,
rounding the corners more drastically and including a box shadow when the light color scheme is active.

<span class="improved">IMPROVED</span> When viewing the permalink for a post that points to an external URL the words
'External Link' replace the word 'Permalink' to further signify that it is a linked post.

<span class="added">ADDED</span> Navigation! A navigation element underneath the masthead of the site which I decided to structure using `<li>`
rather than link weight in `_config.yml`.

<span class="added">ADDED</span> Archive page! Organized with monthly grouping in reverse chronological order.

<span class="added">ADDED</span> Built-in HTML/CSS compression (minification). No need to re-invent the wheel, this feature
was implemented perfectly (without using a plugin!) by [Anatol Broder](http://jch.penibelst.de/).

<span class="added">ADDED</span> Support for categories! A category is intended to be singular, as it should be. The categories page is sorted
alphabetically and the posts within each category are sorted in reverse chronological order.

<span class="added">ADDED</span> Support for tags! Tags are intended to be plural if necessary. Tags are displayed at the bottom of each post
whether viewing paginated posts or a single post. The tags page is sorted alphabetically but tags listed on posts are
in the order which they are added in front matter to allow for custom sorting.

<span class="soon">COMING SOON</span> Per-post author bio.

<span class="soon">COMING SOON</span> A true black dark mode toggle for OLED displays.

---

This theme is a constant work in progress. If you have any issues, questions or suggestions please send them [my way](https://github.com/essentialenemy)...and thank you for your interest in Noir!